merge and rebase

merge u can get histrory of commit message

rebase can not get history commit message

cherry-pick commit from one branch and apply it onto another

git gui

how to edit commited message?  use -ament 

how to check last few commits? git log
get reset 


-------------

docker

1.what is docker?
caching mechanism

2. what is docker file?

3. what is diff between kill and stop?

4. diff between add and copy?
   add - source can any whr

4. diff btwn entrypoint and cmd?

6. what is base image  you will perfer your docker file? alpine linux is very less size of image

7. how to login into your running container?

8. how to check live logs in docke container? docker logs -- follow < container -id>

9. what is port forwarding?

10. how to run a container in backround? -d 

11. what are the commands you used docker file? FROM RUN CMD ENTERYPOINT ADD LABEL WORKDIR EXPOSE VOLUMES COPY 

12. what is label in docker?  

13. what is docker tag?  for using new image name

14. how to store data persistently?  volumes

15. docker volume?  -v hostmacine/path:container/path

16. what is docker network? 

17. where you are store docker images?

18. how to run multiple container at a time?

4. What are the main drawbacks of Docker?

Some notable drawbacks of Docker are:

Doesn't provide a storage option
Offer a poor monitoring option.
No automatic rescheduling of inactive Nodes
Complicated automatic horizontal scaling set up

5. What is Docker image?

The Docker image help to create Docker containers. You can create the Docker image with the build command. Due to this, it creates a container that starts when it begins to run. Every docker images are stored in the Docker registry.

7. Explain Registries

There are two types of registry is

Public Registry
Private Registry



19. Explain Docker object labels

Docker object labels is a method for applying metadata to docker objects including, images, containers, volumes, network, swam nodes, and services.


21. Where the docker volumes are stored?

You need to navigate:

 /var/lib/docker/volumes



23. How does communication happen between Docker client and Docker Daemon?

You can communicate between Docker client and Docker Daemon with the combination of Rest API, socket.IO, and TCP.



26. How to use JSON instead of YAML compose file?

docker-compose -f docker-compose.json up


27. What is the command you need to give to push the new image to Docker registry?

docker push myorg/img



31. What are the steps for the Docker container life cycle?

Below are the steps for Docker life cycle:

Build
Pull
Run

1860 120 7777

40. What are the three components of Docker Architecture

Client
Docker-Host
Registry
41. What is client?

Docker provides Command Line Interface tools to the client to interact with Docker daemon.



39. Can you remove a paused container from Docker?
The answer is no. You cannot remove a paused container. The container has to be in the stopped state before it can be removed.




 
