
what is your role and daily activity?  

how to check hosts in ansible inventry using adhoc command?

how to create pipe line using jenkins and deploy war file in tomcat?

How to copy the file in apache using jenkins?

Difference between load and save command in docker?

HOw to update the patch file using ansible?

i can install package thru scripts and then why using ansible?

HOw to get inventery file from database?

what are the storage classes available in s3?

what is different type of instance? if i want to install redis server what will u suggess?

ARe you using ECS and EKS?

What is vpc? HOw to connect two different subnet? what out vpc what

when using nlb and how to configure?

how to connet two different vpc and explain?

what is cloud formation write simple ec2 instance?

how will monitor aws servers?

how to connect nexus using jenkins?

What is artifactory?

if one docker container is down how will u check?

what is ansible tower? 

mavan life cycle?

what is the difference between install and deploy?

what is the major advantage of maven why you are using maven?

what is disadvantage of docker?

what is harding?

how to connect database in python? explain step by step?

what is lamda function in python?

difference between fetch and pull?

difference between git and svn?

what module used in ansible?

what is ci/cd pipeline? how to configure 3 jobs one another?

what is upstream/downstream?

what is bonding and how to remove one nic ?

how will u configer sftp user?

what is patch in linux? how to do patch file ? what are the issues facing after patch?

difference between merge and rebase?

how to add two volume group?

Explain page in and page out in OS memory management ?

Define the role of Luci and Ricci in redhat cluster suite ?

What is multipathing and why is it required ?

how to check new mounted lun?

in LVM what is the difference L and l?









