GIT

what is the use of Branch.

when Branch success what you will do.

maven script extension

maven steps and how to avoid 2 steps in maven

what u will storing in guihub?

what is gitfetch?

The git fetch command downloads commits, files, and refs from a remote repository into your local repo. Fetching is what you do when you want to see what everybody else has been working on. ... When downloading content from a remote repo, git pull and git fetch commands are available to accomplish the task.

what is gitpull?

git pull is a Git command used to update the local version of a repository from a remote. ... By default, git pull does two things. Updates the current local working branch (currently checked out branch) Updates the remote tracking branches for all other branches.


git fetch just "downloads" the changes from the remote to your local repository. git pull downloads the changes and merges them into your current branch. "In its default mode, git pull is shorthand for git fetch followed by git merge FETCH_HEAD


what is staging area in git?

The staging area is best described as a preview of your next commit. Meaning, when you do a git commit , git will take the changes that are in the staging area and make the new commit out of those changes. One practical use of the staging area is that it allows you to fine-tune your commits

what is local area in git?



how to check the URL in git?

what is git remote

 remote in Git is a common repository that all team members use to exchange their changes. In most cases, such a remote repository is stored on a code hosting service like GitHub or on an internal server. In contrast to a local repository, a remote typically does not provide a file tree of the project's current state.

what is git reset ?

Summary. To review, git reset is a powerful command that is used to undo local changes to the state of a Git repo. Git reset operates on "The Three Trees of Git". These trees are the Commit History ( HEAD ), the Staging Index, and the Working Directory.

what is git revert?

The git revert command is a forward-moving undo operation that offers a safe method of undoing changes. Instead of deleting or orphaning commits in the commit history, a revert will create a new commit that inverses the changes specified. Git revert is a safer alternative to git reset in regards to losing work.

what is git merge?

Git Merge. Merging is Git's way of putting a forked history back together again. The git merge command lets you take the independent lines of development created by git branch and integrate them into a single branch. Note that all of the commands presented below merge into the current branch

what is git rebase?

What is a rebase in Git? In Git, the rebase command integrates changes from one branch into another. It is an alternative to the better known "merge" command. Most visibly, rebase differs from merge by rewriting the commit history in order to produce a straight, linear succession of commits



what kind of job you will do GIT hub?

--------------------------------------

ANSIBLE

what is ansible role

if i dont want template module what is the alternate solution in ansible.

how edit ansible vault file

how to get the 10 hosts uptime through ansible adhoc command.

if deployment file correupted what is the solution

what are task you have peformed in build operations?

--------------------------------------------------------------------

JENKINS

tell about step step prodedure for integarte nexus with jenkins

if i created 10 jobs jenkins , where it will be created?

what is the use of target folder.?

what is the use of plugin folder?

if i want change defult path, how to change?

how to connect master to slave.

what file system you have normally used in linux enviroment.

what is pipeline projects

R u used to created CI/CD pipe line

what kind of job will be there in CI

what kind of pipeline you will create

when u will create free style jobs

what are all the jobs we need effective for CICD

how CICD configured in your environment

----------------------------------------------------------------


DOCKER

what is the use of Docker

what u did your project in Docker

what type of command will be used in Docker.

RUN,CMD,ENTRYPOINT command in docker.

if i want run script in container how to run?

i want restrict user, set of commands to run particular user?

if i want install softwares in container , what command you will refer

what is the configuration for docker server

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

AWS

what are the services you know in AWS?

what is VPC?

what is subnet?

what is load balancer in AWS?

What is cloud formation

What are the OS will be suopport in EC2 and what OS you have used?

how to do appilcation monitoring and what type used.

how zabbix will work?

what are the infra will monitor.

how to secure application in AWS.

what s3 storage

---------------------------------------------------------------------

COMMON


$@ command in linux ?

what is shebang line?

what are linux flavers you worked.

Which are kernal you have expereinced

what file system you have normally used in linux enviroment.

what application server and web server used in your project.

diffrence b/w applicatio and web server.

how web application will work? what are the stpes will perform.

what is load balancer and how to work.

what are the database servers using in your environment.

do you have write any query in RDS?

tell your daily activities 


























































